# C01-S01: Derivatives Management System

The small financial services company C1 created a system for the management and search of derivatives (S1) that was offered as Software as a Service (SaaS). S1 had been migrated from a monolithic PHP application and consisted of nine Microservices mostly written in Java that relied on RESTful HTTP and AMQP messaging for communication. Developer P1 rated the current evolvability assurance activities as level 2. Several guidelines for the structure and communication of services existed that formed service blueprints and came together in a reference architecture that was continuously refined. Confluence was used as a central documentation system for this. Service functionality and the Git workflow were documented there as well. In addition to these standardization and documentation efforts, there was a strong unit testing culture. Moreover, mandatory code reviews for pull requests should ensure consistency and code quality. Apart from local IDE linting, no tools or metrics were used in the assurance process. P1 noted, however, that it was planned to install a central SonarQube instance and to integrate it into the CI/CD pipeline. Because static endpoint configuration had been a problem in the past, the team decided to implement the *Service Registry* pattern using Eureka for dynamic service discovery. The general perception of evolvability was reported as positive (+1) by P1. After the Microservices migration, system modularity and modifiability as well as analyzability of individual services would be much improved. Even the reusability of services would be beneficial and the team would sometimes actively generalize or abstract interfaces to improve this even further. In general, the newly created services were of good quality and no serious symptoms of technical debt were visible. Because current assurance effectiveness (especially code reviews) would be very good (+2) and activities generally had a positive impact on long-term productivity (+1), P1 would not want to invest more efforts overall. However, he advocated for integrating a central SonarQube instance into the CI/CD pipeline with a small number of sensible quality gates. Lastly, he saw the documentation of service dependencies as desirable.