# C02-S02: Freeway Toll Management System

We talked about the evolvability assurance processes for three systems developed by C2, a large global software and consulting enterprise. All of them were for external customers. The first of these systems, S2, was a management and payment system for freeway tolls. A newly created central Microservice-based system consisting of 10 Java Microservices replaced an existing decentralized legacy solution. Because a communicated systematic process was used, the maturity level of the assurance activities was rated as level 3 by architect P2. A high degree of automation for testing and quality analysis was used to achieve this. Tool support was also integrated into the CI/CD pipeline with nightly quality checks. For releases, there were also defined quality gates that had to be reached. Test automation covered large amount of unit and integration tests that were also mapped to requirements to see which requirements were endangered. For the three larger central services, close to 1000 end-to-end test were written which took substantial efforts. As a central tool, SonarQube was used to identify bad code quality or cycles. It was also extended with plugins for CheckStyle and PMD. The standard SonarQube metrics were used, but most important were test coverage, clone coverage, the number of defects per service, the number of failed tests, and the number of endangered requirements. The *Event-Driven Messaging* pattern was used to decouple the three central services further. P2 generally perceived the evolvability of the new system as very positive (+2). The overall quality of the new services would be good with no significant significant symptoms of technical debt. Services and their modules would also be easy to replace. Assurance effectiveness was described as positive (+1), but improvable. Due to the high efforts (especially for test automation), the overall impact on productivity was rated as neutral (0). Invested efforts were still seen as necessary though and P2 did not want to reduce them, even though he was open to more efficient techniques and would prioritize automated end-to-end tests earlier next time. One challenge in this regard was the integration of independently developed Microservices which P2 described as tedious and error-prone, especially if no integration tests existed. Early on, a lot of tests also had to be rewritten because of unstable interfaces. Lastly, the integration of an existing legacy C++ algorithm was a driver for complexity that negatively impacted evolvability.