# C02-S04: Public Transport Sales System

The last analyzed assurance process from C2 was for S4, a sales system for public transportation. An existing complex of monoliths was in the process of being rewritten into ~100 Microservices structured in 15 domains. Architect P4 rated the maturity level of their assurance between level 1 and 2. There were central architectural guidelines for outer architecture and cross-cutting concerns. During recurring project reviews, these guidelines were also enforced to some degree. For most other concerns including the inner architecture of services, the individual teams create their own guidelines. Service dependencies between teams were documented to raise awareness for them and control them. Tool support was also used, but could be extended and scaled out to each team. Most teams used SonarQube with an integrated FindBugs plugin for code quality. Additionally, VersionEye was used to analyze library dependencies. While the standard SonarQube metrics were available, the number of code smells and test coverage were seen as most important and also reported to the central architecture team. Several patterns were used to increase evolvability. On top of *Event-Driven Messaging*, the *Backends for Frontends* pattern should decouple clients from the API and ease its usage. Because they were written in Node.js, this also allowed frontend developers to develop these components themselves. Additionally, *Consumer-Driven Contracts* as well as the *Tolerant Reader* pattern were used to ensure interface stability with non-breaking changes and to make consumers more robust. The large number of different teams and contractors led to technological heterogeneity and different service granularity. This was the main reason that P4's perception of the system's evolvability was slightly negative (-1), even though no significant symptoms of technical debt were present. The central architecture team would spent significant efforts trying to harmonize technology usage and service granularity, before the system would be handed over to the smaller maintenance team. Assurance effectiveness would be positive (+1), but improvable with additional efforts and methods. While project teams would like to focus on functionality, the central architecture team would stress the importance of quality assurance. Overall, the impact of assurance activities on productivity was seen as neutral (0). P4 would not want to invest much more efforts for evolvability, but it would be important to motivate people to actually use the provided guidelines and standards. The biggest challenge in this project would be to coordinate the teams that consisted of 300 people from different contractors to move towards a common goal.