# C04-S06: Automotive Configuration Management System

The software services company C4 was rewriting a very large monolithic configuration management system for an automotive customer. The resulting system S6 currently consisted of ~60 Java Microservices. Due to the systematic and elaborate assurance activities, architect P7 rated the maturity as level 3. A number of architectural principles and guidelines existed. For example, inter-service dependencies should be avoided wherever possible to reduce coupling, even if this meant data replication. This included the avoidance of shared libraries via conscious duplication. Additionally, P7 performed governance for the placement of new functionality (existing service or new service?), service dependencies, or important test cases. Concerning documentation, the architecture of the system and all services as well as their dependencies and functionality were documented. Code reviews were mandatory for everything that reached the master branch. The assurance process for S6 was also one of the few that included the conscious tracking and management of technical debt with a central list. Every two weeks, a technical debt meeting was held to discuss which debt items should be addressed. In line with this, there were frequent refactorings to improve code quality and reduce technical debt, often in so called *hardening sprints* at the end of an iteration. While tool support was an important part of quality analysis, no hard quality gates existed, mainly because the customer often wanted fast prototypical releases for experimentation. Nonetheless, the quality status of the different services was displayed on an information wall in the office to raise awareness and motivation. A central SonarQube instance with FindBugs and Checkstyle was the primary used tool for code quality. Apart from the standard SonarQube metrics and code smells, other important metrics were test coverage, the number of failed tests, and clone coverage. Even though no service-oriented metrics e.g. for coupling and cohesion were used, P7 acknowledged their potential helpfulness, because their underlying principles were currently the basis for his architectural decisions. The general perception of evolvability was positive (+1). The modularity and independent development of Microservices made it possible to scale out the development and to increase modifiability. Testability and reusability of individual services would also be improved. However, the general analysis of the macroarchitecture would be harder due to the large number of small services, which would also make the overall assurance process more complicated. Still, assurance effectiveness was seen as positive (+1) and would improve quality. Assurance impact on productivity would be positive as well (+1) and was perceived as absolutely necessary in the mid-term. P7 wanted no major changes in current assurance efforts, but adding some architectural and service-oriented metrics could be helpful. Major challenges would be service cutting and finding the right service granularity. The complex domain and architecture led to continuous architecture refinement and P7 noted that their probably was no objectively "best" decomposition.