# C05-S08: IT Service Monitoring Platform

The global IT services provider C5 developed S8, a monitoring solution with an operations dashboard, for which we analyzed the assurance process. S8 was currently migrated towards a more fine-grained architecture and consisted so far of nine services. Lead developer P9 rated the evolvability assurance as maturity level 2, even though some parts of the quality assurance pipeline were currently in the making, e.g. the CI/CD pipeline integration of SonarQube with quality gates. Standardization efforts included architectural guidelines and principles as well as skeleton projects for services. Furthermore, there was some governance for the usage of technologies and some candidates were recommended. For tools, SonarQube with integrated FindBugs was used. From the provided metrics, cognitive complexity would be important to keep logic understandable. Additionally, test coverage was tracked and improvement efforts were ongoing. Concerning patterns, "Event-Driven Messaging" via RabbitMQ was implemented, primarily for reliable message exchange, but also to decouple services further. P9 rated the general evolvability of S8 as very positive (+2). Modularity and modifiability would be high and it would be very easy to add new components or change existing ones. However, P9 also said that missing or outdated documentation would be a problem. It was also complicated to decide which types of documentation were necessary and in which format. Since there were also several dependencies between services, there would sometimes be ripple effects both at runtime or for changes, e.g. concerning the authentication service. Assurance effectiveness was seen as positive (+1). Especially the static code analysis would improve quality and would create awareness for the developers. Assurance impact on productivity was seen as somewhat negative (-1). If too much effort was invested e.g. to fix SonarQube findings, this would slow down the creation of new functionality in a noticeable way. Overall, P9 wanted to invest a bit more effort (+1). Test coverage should play a more prominent role and the quantity and sophistication of test automation should be increased, e.g. with automated integration tests. Moreover, a structured approach with more governance should be taken. Notable challenges would be service cutting and finding the right service granularity. Lastly, implementing Microservices and DevOps technologies as well as training developers and transferring knowledge between them was seen as difficult.