# C06-S10: Hotel Management Suite

The second system from C6 was S10, a management suite for hoteliers with several modular products that followed the *Self-Contained System* (SCS) paradigm and comprised 20 coarse-grained and vertically cut services. Architect P12 rated the evolvability assurance as maturity level 2. Several guidelines (e.g. for Docker files) and standardizations like skeleton projects would be in place, even though most were not strictly enforced. Architects acted as consultants that would try to convince people to take sensible technological and architectural decisions. Overall, there would be very little systematic actions, even though P12 saw this as necessary for the future. Automated testing was mostly acceptance testing on the UI level and tests were linked to usage scenarios that ensured a user's perspective on functionality. Furthermore, an incident book was used to document issues and learn for the future. With respect to tools, SonarQube was available, but would not be used very much. On top of that, developers relied on IDE linting for JavaScript and PHP to some degree. Metrics were not really important as well. While test coverage would be visible, P12 saw its value as deceiving. In addition to the SCS pattern for isolating components with vertical splits, the *Backends for Frontends* pattern was used with GraphQL to decouple the frontends further from the actual business logic. This also resulted in more efficient queries and bypassed "chatty" APIs. While P12 perceived evolvability and especially modularity as improved after the migration, he still gave an overall neutral rating (0). Primary reason for this would be that so few people would maintain such a large product. Not many symptoms of technical debt would be present apart from maybe the slow addition of new functionality and even this would be because the product is so new and the added functionality very large. Assurance effectiveness was reported as slightly positive (+1), even though some parts would not really bring much value. This is P12 saw the impact on productivity as slightly negative (-1). Overall, a bit more effort should be invested (+1), especially to remove complexity from the code and architecture. Simplicity was seen as a key principle for increasing evolvability. P12 saw the usage of a lot of heterogeneous technology without clearly thinking about the problems that needed to be solved as very dangerous for long-term evolvability ("hipsterization of technology"). Mixing Java with other languages was also seen as suboptimal. Moreover, service cutting was reported as a complex and time-consuming activity. As a final challenge, P12 perceived it as difficult to communicate the importance of evolvability assurance to people and to persuade them to follow the guidelines.