# C07-S11: Public Transport Management Suite

Company C7 developed S11, a product suite for managing the whole process of public transportation. We discussed the ongoing modernization of the whole suite with DevOps engineer P13 while architect P14 specifically described the assurance process of the human resource management product (S11a). S11 was nearly 30 years old and consisted of a mix of various legacy and modern technologies with large parts written in Java EE. New functionality would often be added as fine-grained services. Current modernization efforts aimed to standardize and automate deployment processes and to migrate to a more fine-grained architecture. P13 rated the general assurance process as between maturity level 1 and 2. This would be very different per team and some teams would also be close to level 3. A central architecture team performed governance and provided guidance to teams during the modernization. There were also efforts to facilitate knowledge exchange between teams, but no central solutions were provided. Nonetheless, teams used tools and metrics very differently. Most teams would rely on SonarQube with FindBugs and Checkstyle, but apart from that teams chose their tools and metrics fairly autonomously. Teams would also need this autonomy because their products and technology could be vastly different, which was seen as challenging. The human resource management part S11a was not a Microserivce-based system and also did not exhibit most service-oriented characteristics (e.g. platform-agnostic interfaces or standardized data formats). The Java EE deployment monolith nonetheless had an elaborate assurance process that P14 rated as between maturity level 2 and 3, because the process would not be strictly formalized. P14 perceived Level 3 also as somewhat contrary to modern autonomous and decentralized teams. The assurance activities included CI/CD integration for a number of custom rule checks and test automation that provided feedback on quality gates, even though there was no restriction for merging. Technical debt tracking and management were used as well. Moreover, the single Java code base allowed for sophisticated architectural conformance checking via a custom tool, which would be much harder for Microservices. Other used tools were FindBugs, PMD, and Cobertura. Important metrics were the number of architectural violations and the number of FindBugs issues. Overall, P14 was skeptical towards most metrics, since it would be difficult to use them in a healthy way and not to optimize for the metrics instead of fixing the underlying problems. In general, P13 perceived the evolvability of the whole product suite S11 as neutral (0). New and migrated parts would be much improved, but older products with large legacy parts were hard to maintain and evolve and exhibited a large number of symptoms. Especially testability would be better for the newly created smaller services. Modifiability for new or changed features would also be much better in the new services. P13 saw assurance effectiveness as positive (+1), but overall not enough. More company-wide efforts and systematic usage would be helpful. Furthermore, much more effort should be invested (+2). Assurance impact on productivity was seen as neutral (0), because general efficiency of applied techniques could still be improved. For S11a, P14 generally perceived evolvability as positive (+1). While they would have a low release frequency (3 times per year), this would be wanted and there would be a deployment to the internal test environment every day. Assurance effectiveness was seen as very positive (+2), especially the architectural conformance checking. P14 described tool support as essential to ensure the evolvability of a long-living and large system. The substantial efforts for assurance activities and modernization would impact feature development, but were seen as absolutely necessary. P14 therefore gave a neutral rating (0) with a positive long-term notion for assurance impact on productivity. With respect to challenges, P13 reported that mastering the new technology related to Microservices and DevOps would be difficult and required lots of training effort. Since the product suite would be so large, it would also be difficult to have a complete view of the system. Moreover, integration testing complexity had increased as well. Lastly, it would be complicated to estimate efforts and timelines and communicate them to customers. For P14, the deployment process of S11a was seen as slow with room for improvement. Cycle time could be faster and feedback more directed at the relevant people. It would also be challenging to integrate all heterogeneous technologies and the existing legacy components.