# C09-S13: Automotive End-User Services Management System

Software and IT services company C9 migrated S13, a system of an external automotive customer, to a more cloud-native architecture. S13 handled the management and payment of end-user services in the car. The existing monolith was moved from traditional WebSphere to Liberty running on Docker. Because of the complexity and importance of S13, service cutting was postponed during the initial migration. The *Strangler* pattern was used instead to gradually add new fine-grained services around the existing monolith. Architect P16 rated the general maturity of the assurance process as level 2. There was a strong focus on test automation and Test-Driven Development (TDD). Unit and integration tests were executed during Maven builds. P16 also highlighted the importance of checking which technology made the most sense for the problem at hand and to take existing background and technologies into consideration. Like this, one could choose the best tool for the job while simultaneously avoiding too much heterogeneity. For tool support, SonarQube was used in combination with Checkstyle, PMD, and FindBugs. While no central key metrics existed, most SonarQube metrics were reported and test coverage was seen as important as well. Because S13 needed to communicate with several other systems, the *Request-Reaction* pattern was implemented to bridge communication between REST and AMQP messaging. P16 generally rated S13's evolvability as very positive (+2), but his view was very focused on deployment automation and CI/CD pipelines to bring code fast into production. Architecture or code quality were not really factored in or seen as very important. P16 also named customer approvals as an important factor that could slow down releases. Smaller individual services and low cycle time would also lead to higher quality, because teams could focus more on specialized functionality and would receive frequent feedback. Assurance effectiveness was seen as positive (+1) with some room for improvement. The impact of assurance activities on productivity was described as very positive (+2). Long-term evolvability would be a major focus for S13. Lastly, P16 saw it as challenging that the customer changed infrastructure technologies and providers several times which posed difficulties for learning and mastering these new technologies.