# C10-S14: Retail Online Shop

In similar fashion as the other online shops (S7, S12), retailer C10 replaced a COTS solution (Intershop Enfinity) with a custom online shop, S14, that was initially based on *Self-Contained System* (SCS). Over time, S14 gradually evolved towards Microservices and now consisted of 150-200 services based on a variety of technologies and languages. Lead architect P17 rated the overall evolvability assurance processes as level 2. He saw level 3 as more applicable for safety-critical systems. Strong governance and strict adherence to a global process would collide with the high degree of team autonomy within C10. Decentralization and team empowerment while at the same time fostering responsibility were important parts of C10's philosophy. To ensure a consistent strategy, general macroarchitectural principles and guidelines existed, e.g. the usage of RESTful HTTP or data ownership of services. Microarchitecture, however, was the complete responsibility of individual teams. This was similar for assurance activities, tools, and metrics. Technological heterogeneity was generally seen as very beneficial, even though P17 was aware of associated risks. In general, a high degree of automation with CI/CD integration was practiced, which made it easy to restore a faulty service to an old version. SonarQube was used by most teams, but some removed it again due to dubious benefits. P17 reported the short usage of Structure101 to analyze the architecture of a larger subsystem. On top of that, several teams used FindBugs, PMD, Checkstyle, Cobertura, Codecov, or Codacy. In general, tools were often used temporarily to address specific problems. After resolving these, the tools were sometimes removed again. Too many tools would slow down the CI/CD pipeline and people could not observe too many metrics at once. P17 saw test coverage and the runtime of the CI/CD pipeline as important metrics. Lines of code was also sometimes used for comparisons. Apart from that, most traditional metrics would not be useful, because their importance for a single service would be low. A system-centric view for metrics would not really exist. This caused a difficult macroarchitecture assessment due to distributed repositories. The design principles of service-oriented metrics would be interesting, because they would be respected by the existing guidelines. No concrete measurements for service coupling or cohesion would be implemented though. With respect to patterns, the *Self-Contained System* paradigm was the starting point of S14 and was still sporadically used today because the provided vertical isolation was seen as beneficial. Additionally, *Event-Driven Messaging* and *Event Sourcing* were used by some teams to decouple services further. P17 generally saw S14's evolvability as very positive (+2). It would not only be easier to add new functionality, but also to remove it again. The same would be true for technologies or frameworks. The modularity of the system would be much improved with small services. Reusability and also replaceability were seen as much better as well. The analyzability of a single service would be very good, but analyzing and comprehending the complete system would be harder. P17 rated the general assurance effectiveness as positive (+1), but with potential for improvement which was currently not focused though. Assurance impact on productivity was reported as very positive (+2). P17 highlighted the importance of a continuous product development mode to avoid and reduce technical debt which would ensure efficient long-term development. Overall, slightly more efforts should be invested for assurance activities (+1), e.g. refactoring of APIs to reduce coupling and to increase reusability and extensibility.